>> Nina Zakharenko: We want to catch
the more specific exception first.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So I'm going to
make a little function here, and
I'm gonna call it division.
And it's gonna take the number to divide,
Sam and I just call that num.
And I’m gonna say, try: result =,
let me make sure my
indentation is correct here.
Okay, result is going
to equal to the value
of pi divided by the user input number.
We're going to except
on ArithmeticError and
print out that we had
a general math error.
Otherwise, I'm also going to accept
on a special type of exception called
the ZeroDivisionError.
Why might this come up?
>> Speaker 2: If you divide by zero and
the number is zero.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yes,
so if the number is zero.
Yeah, and I can say, Divide by zero error.
>> Speaker 3: I think you're gonna have
problems because the arithmetic is spelled
wrong and you missed the first i, and so-
>> Nina Zakharenko: Thank you.
Let me just put that back in real quickly.
So result = 3.14 / num and
except Arithmetic.
Got that right.
Yeah, Error.
Okay, and I'm gonna print out, math error.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
then I'm gonna except on
ZeroDivisionError.
And I'm going to print, zero division.
Okay, if I try to do division by 0,
we're gonna see something
a little bit unexpected.
I'm going to get a math error, and
that's because the 0 division error
is the more specific error, and
arithmetic error is the more general one.
So by catching the more
general exception first,
I swallowed the more
helpful error message.
And to figure out this
exception hierarchy,
you can look at the Python docs page.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And check it out.
There's a lot there,
the link is in the course website.
In general, it's pretty bad to
catch exception in your code,
because let's say I was
using the GitHub API,
and I caught exception
when I tried to use it.
I just completely lost context of
what the general exception was.
And now I can't really change the flow
of my program by what I can do with it.
The absolute worst thing that
you can do is try some code.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Except on Exception.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And then do nothing.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Everything went
fine according to my code, right?
So this is called
swallowing the exception.
You should at least try to log it or
do something,
maybe page your ops guy depending
on the severity of the error.
But by doing this you'll
really lose a lot of context.
And again, generally don't catch
base exception, or not generally,
but definitely don't do that ever, ever.
That's even the worst form of this.